# My Coding Backstory

My first experience with coding of any kind was when I was about 14. For the first time, I had access to the internet, and since that was around the time I started playing guitar properly, I went online to find tabs and sheet music that I could learn to play. As a direct result, I stumbled upon the forums of [Ultimate Guitar](https://www.ultimate-guitar.com/), and I made my first "internet friends". Back then, the site allowed users to include their own **HTML** and **CSS** on their profile pages in order to style it to their tastes. I had little idea of what I was doing, beyond tinkering with some copy-pasted code I'd found on someone else's page, but I tinkered with every line I could. It got to the point where some other users asked me to design their pages for them -- not many people, and almost never again after the first couple months, but it was exciting all the same.

I didn't realise I had taken my first steps into a much larger world (I didn't even know I was fiddling with two languages at once, much less what they were called), and it was a number of years before my next real foray past the walled gardens of tech. I was coming to the end of my school life, and looking to decide what I wanted to study in university. I had decided already that I wanted to keep up my French language skills, but I also wanted to find something that I thought would be new and interesting. My impetus for choosing Computer Science at the time was mostly based around the idea that, "Hey, I like the internet. That's gotta be similar, right?" I was wrong, but I'm glad for it nonetheless.

I started [my degree](https://www.tcd.ie/courses/undergraduate/az/course.php?id=DUBMF-CSLA-2F09) in 2012, and learned the basics of **Java**, a tiny bit of **Perl** and **Prolog**, and even some **ARM Assembly**. As I came to the end of the first year, I was contacted by a cousin of mine, who (ever the entrepeneur) had a business idea, and since he knew I was studying Computer Science, he asked if I'd be able to build a website for him, which he would pay me to build. I said, "Of course!" and spent the next two days buried deep in forums and documentation pages as I got to grips with the fundamentals of **PHP**, **MySQL**, and **JQuery**, as well as learning how to properly use **HTML5** and **CSS3**. Unfortunately, I didn't know enough at that point to really make my cousin's film recommendation idea come to fruition, but it did teach me a lot about website design as it existed in around 2013. You can see my cousin's latest (and much more successful) venture [here](https://dublininstagramtours.com/).

Through the rest of my undergrad, I picked up a lot more **Java** and **Prolog**, as well as **C**, **C++** (with a little of the [OpenGL](https://www.opengl.org/) framework), **Python** (2 and 3, as well as some popular libraries like [NLTK](https://www.nltk.org/)), **Oracle SQL**, as well as a working familiarity with Linux systems due to writing some productivity scripts for myself, primarily using **Bash**. The courses I took were varied, from algorithms and data structures, to natural language processing, artificial intelligence, and graphics programming.

Immediately after completing my degree, I took an internship with a research group based in the same university. I worked on a project that was developing an expressive text-to-speech synthesis system (primarily in **Java**) using machine learning. I got a chance to expand my knowledge of web technologies, in particular **PHP** and **JavaScript** as I designed a responsive online interface for post-editing of automatically generated sentiment labels.

I began my PhD exploring the ordering and relations between events an times in narrative texts in 2016, and since then I've primarily worked with **Python 3**, though I've often used (and taught) **Prolog** and **Java** since then. I've also used this time to hugely extend my repetoire where web development is concerned, taking opportunities to learn vanilla **JavaScript**, both as a frontend language in the browser and backend as part of **Node**. I've also picked up an understanding of the **React** framework, and this site is built with **Vue**.